There are a ton of books and videos
about how to relieve your stress. But
what nobody really talks about is the
underlying causes of your stress. And in
this video, I sit down with a woman and
we talk about the four core issues
underneath stress and different ways to
work with them to change your life
completely. And we don't do it just in
talking. We also give you real life
experiments to run so that you can feel
it. Right now,
we're going to just do a simple one
where we're paying attention to stress.
So settle down for a minute.
Feel inside your body
and find any stress that you have.
And all you're going to do is just pay
attention to it. Don't do anything else.
Don't try to change it. Don't try to get
rid of it. Don't invite it. Just
be with whatever stress you can find.
So that's the experiment. It's that
simple. But you might want to notice
right now that you're less stressed than
you were at the beginning of the
experiment.
If you think about the head orientation,
the thought orientation towards stress,
these are the things that create stress
because of the way you think. So one
thing is how you think about stress
itself. That's good or that's bad is
going to increase your stress or
decrease your stress. Oh my gosh, I
can't stop stressing out is more
stressful than saying, "Oh, this is
stress and it's lovely." Or another
thought process that really, for
instance, is I should do this. I have to
do this. obligation
instead of, "Oh, I want to do this. I
can't wait to do this." That that
thought pattern can create a tremendous
amount of stress. Limiting beliefs can
create a tremendous amount of stress.
Something that you think is not
possible, but it is possible and then
you feel stuck and trapped. That is a
huge part of what can create stress in
your life. Another one is just the
critical voice in your head. Just the
way that you talk to yourself. If you're
constantly under attack inside of your
head, that is an amazing source of
stress.
[Music]
In this experiment, we're just going to
learn a little something about the
negative self-t talk in our head.
So, it's a really simple experiment.
You're going to close your eyes and
you're going to listen to whatever the
voice in your head has to say.
Just simple.
And anything that it says negative, if
it says you'll never get out of it, you
can't do it, you have to do this and
this and this. Anything that a really
crappy boss would say to you,
you're going to just respond by saying
ouch out loud.
So, every time it says something mean or
not very nice or abusive or just super
micromanaging,
you just keep saying ouch.
By this time, you'll notice that the
voice in the head is saying negative
stuff to you often,
and that's stressful.
It's just stressful to live with
something that's talking to you like
that all the time.
So, I was 26, 27 years old, and I
decided I'm going to go out into the
woods and starve myself fast, whatever
you want to call it. And I was having
this moment where I realized that I was
stressed out just sitting in the woods.
And what happened in my system was, "Oh
my god, I'm stressed out." Then the next
thing that happened was
what's wrong with me that I'm stressed
out. And I became more stressed. So it
wasn't like there was, oh, this is too
much stress and this is not enough
stress. It was
am I thinking about my stress in a way
that is, oh, this is useful. Is it like
in my system? Does it feel do my
thoughts show, oh, hey, this is useful?
Or am I rejecting the stress? Am I
saying no, this isn't good. This is bad.
I need to stop that.
And that is actually what made the
stress good for me or bad for me. Let's
say you're playing a game like
basketball. There's a massive
activation. There's a stress to it.
You're trying to get to the place.
You're trying to get the basket. There's
like this stress to it. It can feel
really, really good. Or you can be,
"Fuck, I got to go to work again. This
sucks. And I'm thinking about it all the
time." And and the weird trick about
this one is that you can't convince
yourself entirely, though you can a
little bit, which is weird, but you
can't convince yourself entirely to, oh,
I'm just going to have a positive
attitude around stress and then stress
is the right amount of stress
because there's a nervous system level,
an emotional level to the body. So you
can try to pep talk yourself into
enjoying stress. And there's ways that
that actually can work a little bit, but
at some place, some part of your body,
if it's still rejecting the stress, no
matter what you want to be doing, what's
actually happening underneath, if the
muscles are actually getting tense, if
you're actually uncomfortable with that
amount of activity,
then it doesn't really matter. And any
amount of pep talk isn't going to really
change anything for you.
you're not feeling something that you
need to be feeling. You're you have a
stuck emotion that's incredibly
stressful. For instance, many people
they're just like overwhelmed. I have so
much to do, but actually what's just
happening there is that they they like
are angry and they're not feeling it or
they're scared and they're not feeling
it. And so it feels like depression or
anxiety or something like that because
they're not actually allowing that
emotion to move. And holding that back
requires you to hold your muscles,
right? There's no way that you can not
feel an emotion without holding your
muscles. And so if you just think about
doing this
for 10 minutes, it's going to be really
[__] stressful and exhausting. So
that's a big part of the emotional
thing. The other part of the emotional
part of yourself that create a lot of
stress is that are you loving yourself
as you are or are you not? Are you being
gentle with yourself or are you not on
an emotional level? Right? I feel
scared. Can I be gentle with that?
Right? There's no way that we
cannot have an emotional cycle. Like
there's no way we're not going to have
tension and then release. This is part
of life. Without that, we're dead.
Lungs. Without tension and release,
we're dead.
Question is, how gently can you hold
the tension and the release? And that
includes emotions.
[Music]
In this experiment, we're going to just
feel what it's like not to feel our
emotions. So, it's a really simple one.
I want you to stop feeling all of your
emotions right now.
All right? You're still feeling
something. Stop feeling all of it. All
of it.
Everything you can do to stop feeling
your emotions.
Nope. You're still feeling something,
stop. Make sure that you stop feeling.
And you might notice right now your
entire body is stressed out.
That's what happens when you try not to
feel emotions. It stresses your whole
body out.
[Music]
And then on the nervous system, this is
just
this is like exercise, right? You're not
going to grow the most muscles by
working out all the time. You're not
going to get in shape without resting.
You have to do both. And so teaching the
nervous system how to relax
and to be activated. So think about it
like a um string on a violin. Too tight
doesn't work. Too loose doesn't work.
You're looking for a balance of the
nervous system. A couple ways to think
about the stress of the nervous system
is are you able to feel pleasure? I
don't mean pleasure like sexual
pleasure. I mean pleasure like the just
the gentle pleasure of being alive or
washing the dishes or because that
pleasure tells your whole system you're
safe. And if you're not safe
a certain part of the day, you're going
to you're going to burn out.
If you're constantly under attack from
your head, if you're constantly under
attack from the thoughts and your body
never feels that sense of safety, it
never gets the rest and therefore it can
never actually build resilience.
The other way to think about it is
through breath. There's a lot of tricks
that we can go through that just allow
you to get into the parasympathetic
nervous system and get rest. And there's
also this kind of backwards trick that
happens where people do that too much.
doesn't happen often, but it happens
where they are constantly downregulating
their nervous system, and then that can
create stress.
[Music]
In this experiment, we're going to just
play with what it is to feel pleasure.
And the best definition for pleasure
I've ever heard is just awareness of the
sensations in your body moving.
So, close your eyes for a minute.
There's lots of sensations
in your body and just
pay attention to them moving.
And if you want to amplify it just a
little bit, see what how much pleasure
you can take in a breath in while
noticing all the sensations in your
body.
So you can do this for five minutes a
day, anytime you want. Just notice the
sensations moving in your body and take
pleasure in them. And here's a really
cool thing to know. Keep feeling that
pleasure. Keep feeling the sensations.
And now see what happens to the
pleasure. If you couldn't feel any
tension in your body,
no stress, no tension,
what happens to the pleasure?
Notice how it dos it out just a little
bit
the tension in itself
is part of the pleasure experience.
And then there's this other thing that
happens which is you're tying all these
together and we'll call that the
identity. There's identity stress and a
huge amount of our stress comes from
basically I think I'm this and I need to
protect it in the world.
Somebody beat me up on Twitter and so I
need to protect that. Somebody thinks
that I'm I'm bad because I'm not
valuable. Somebody thinks I'm a loser or
or I feel like I'm a loser. I can't I
can't feel like a loser. I can't feel
like I'm codependent. you have this
identity and if you if you have an
identity, the more you have a harder
identity, the more your life is just
going to be stressful.
[Music]
So here's an experiment you can do so
that you can discover a little bit about
your identity. It's a simple experiment.
So usually when we think about who we
are, we have to go into the past or the
future. something that we've done or
something that we're going to do,
something that we felt or something that
we're going to feel, something that we
thought or something that we are going
to think. But what I want you to
discover is who are you right now? So,
close your eyes for a minute and without
going into the past for any evidence or
the future for any evidence, just in
your body,
feel who you are right now. Any
thought you have about it has to come
from the past or the future.
So it's just in your body. Who are you
right now?
You can even ask that question silently
to yourself. Who am I right now?
And the funny thing is who you are right
now is always who you are.
If you're going beyond
the basics of stress management, sleep
and food and exercise, which definitely
do it if you can, the ways to start
approaching stress is to say, oh, what
are the thoughts that create stress?
What's the emotional issues that are
creating stress? What are the nervous
system issues that are creating stress?
And finally, what are the identity
issues that are creating stress?
And you can approach it on any of those
levels and make and make progress. And
then the more you make progress on one,
the more everything else starts just
falling into place.
[Music]